Whenever I'm in a conversation with another software user,
it will eventually drop that I use X. I don't mean X11, I
mean X as a placeholder for some kind of software (or
hardware, for that matter).

Often (although I am embarking on a killing spree soon, so
the frequency may decline) my conversational partner will
respond with, "Oh, so you're one of the two or so people
left in the world who uses X." (hence the upcoming killing
spree)

This kind of conversation has led me into the field of
HCI. Here is one semi-legitimate academic discipline where I
can smack someone who says "No one uses X."

Everywhere else, computer users can put on a set of blinders
and insist that, if they don't do it, no one else does
either.

Of course, I am leading up to the fact that HCI people,
though they supposedly know better, are terrible offenders.

My favorite anecdote to illustrate this pot-kettle
phenomenon comes from a contest at CHI to develop an app to
improve public transit. One of the contestants developed a
hardware device to support the conductors on buses in India.
The conductor would hold this device in one hand and click
on icons on it with the other hand, all while conversing
(yelling) with bus passengers.

I should interrupt this anecdote with two facts: buses in
much of India have conductors. The CHI contest was in
California. There was some communication difficulty from the
audience as to whether the 1.1 billion people of India were
total idiots for not running their buses in the same manner
as the buses within five square blocks of the auditorium.
Oh, well.

Back to my anecdote ... The intrepid developer of the
Conductor Assistance Device, hereafter CAD, fielded a lot of
"questions" about whether conductors should be eliminated
from all Indian buses based on the sage advice of CHI
attendees. Then he received the showstopper.

The showstopper, in any presentation, is dreaded by the
presenter because the contest is effectively lost after the
showstopper question is asked. There is no recovery from the
showstopper. The developer may have put in a year of work
and the project may have considerable merit but it does no
good in the face of the showstopper.

Sometimes, it's not clear whether a question is a
showstopper. Most questions in CHI presentations are
variations of these three timeless questions.

1. "Have you seen my important work in this
area?"

2. "Isn't this really just a minor revision to some
project from a previous decade and, since you know nothing
about that project, we can't really discuss it but you
should know that you're wrong and should not be allowed to
present such drivel?" (What, you don't think that is a
question? How little you know!)

3. "You have done a thing. Why didn't you do this other
thing?"

These three questions are the bulwark of any academic
community and, if you think I am saying that from
personal bitterness, then, no I do not have tenure.

Anyway, back once again to the anecdote and now to the
showstopper. An observant audience member asked, "Why not
just develop a system that allows passengers to use their
cell phones rather than communicate with the conductor?"

The presenter, as so often happens, did not realize that the
showstopper had just been asked. He patiently explained that
Indians are too poor to have cell phones and that,
therefore, we can't have a system that would rely on cell
phones the way we would in the wealthy, elitist environments
of the West. He pointed out that we need compassion for the
poor, who are the most prevalent users of buses anyway.

The presenter blathered on about poverty for quite some
time, finally slowing as he realized something strange was
going on in the audience. He petered out altogether as he
realized that many in the audience were pointing at the
screen behind him, where he was displaying a mosaic of
photographs of Indians on buses, with a conductor
prominently displayed in many of the photos.

After he turned to examine his own photos, it finally began
to dawn on him that many, if not most of the bus passengers
visible were holding cell phones. His hopes of winning the
contest wafted away like smoke on the wind as he very
quietly acknowledged that in these particular cases everyone
had a cell phone and tried to quickly think of some reason
why these cell phones might not be adequate to the task of
communicating extremely simple information about bus stops.
He rambled for a while and even tried out a phrase like
"Most people don't have cell phones" to see how it would
sound but it didn't sound too good in the face of his own
photos.

Let me underscore two things about this anecdote. First, the
audience was very dismissive of the notion of conductors on
buses, violating the principle that not everyone is like
you. Second, the presenter was very dismissive of the notion
of poor people having cell phones, another violation of the
same principle. Sure, the presenter was the one who suffered
that day but everyone was guilty. The scuttlebutt was "Wow,
he really screwed up!" but the larger truth was that he
committed an infraction no different from that of many vocal
members of the HCI community.

Does that mean that these people all suck and are cultural
imperialists? No, it means that it is hard to put yourself
into the shoes of another. Every day I read that Samsung or
Google or Apple is a complete idiot because of some UI
feature that someone doesn't like. Really? Really? No, they
are not idiots. They have a hard job.
