Everybody's gonna want that app if everybody else has it!

                                              ---Yogi Berra

The greatest catcher in the history of baseball passed away
yesterday (as I write this) and so I thought should
commemorate his passing in some way. After all, Yogi Berra
once advised that you should always go to other people's
funerals or else they won't come to yours.

Of course, I don't care about baseball. It was Yogi Berra's
other identity, as the supposed coiner of many of the
deepest and strangest sayings in common currency. Many of
his sayings were presented to the public yesterday in
obituaries (and probably listicles of the top ten Yogiisms).
Among them was was one of his most recent. When his wife
asked where he wanted to be buried---he was 90 after
all---he replied, after some thought, "Surprise me."

But what is remarkable is not that pundits repeat Yogiisms
but that people I meet repeat them. And they repeat them for
a reason. These are sayings that make you look at life in a
different way. As Yogi once said, you can observe a lot by
watching, and hearing a Yogiism widens our focus and helps
watch with heightened acuity.

Like many Yogiisms, there may be no evidence that Yogi Berra
ever said or even heard the epigram above. In fact, I have
been revising it over the past 24 hours trying to fashion it
into something more likely to be said by Yogi Berra, who
would probably not have publicly used the term referenced,
network externalities. Network externality is the value a
node adds to a network by joining that network. Economists
have liked to put it that way since the days when the use of
telephones began to mushroom as the number of people they
could reach by telephone blossomed. These days, network
scientists like to use the expression as well and they are
even more likely to use the word node. They may also call it
a vertex or a place and the connections between nodes may be
called arcs or edges or links. Network scientists measure
the value that, for instance, each person on Facebook adds
for each of their friends.

The problem with many ideas is that they assume a critical
mass of connected nodes upon which their app depends. If
only everyone were connected via our app, we could give
everyone so much! When I say it like this, it seems obvious
but so many students don't see that they are 
thinking about the steady state *after* they've achieved
critical mass. This term, I even heard one student insist
that they would achieve critical mass through excellent
marketing. This student provided no evidence of excellent
marketing. In any case, this student is a designer, not an
excellent marketer. Excellent marketing is not his business.
It is not clear to me that it is any easier to get excellent
marketing than to get excellent design. If I have an
excellent marketer, I might ask her which design would be
easier to work with, rather than go to a designer with an
unproven idea and ask if they would like to take advantage
of my excellent marketer.
